- Bugs can be tough to find when you've got a large history
and it's not clear when you introduced that bug.
So how can Git help you track down a specific bug
with a long history?
I'll give you a couple of seconds to think
about how you approach something like this.
Now Git has a little known feature called git bisect,
and it's really good for tracking these things down.
So here I have a project that I did
and I know that in the past,
this text would fade out as I scrolled up
and that's not happening anymore.
So at some point I made some change that modified that.
So let's see if we can use this feature to figure that out.
So I'm going to start a bisecting session
by issuing a git bisect start command.
Now I know that this current commit is a bad commit.
So I'm going to mark this commit as bad.
Now, once you do that,
you need to find a commit where you know
that the project was working, so that bug did not exist.
So I'm going to issue a git log command,
and I'm going to scroll down through this stuff right here
to see where I can find another commit that was working.
So what I'm going to do is I think over here it was working.
So I'm going to grab this commit ID from here and copy it.
And then I'll hit the Q key to get out,
and I'll do a git checkout command just to see
if it was working at that time,
and I'll paste that commit ID.
So now let's go back into our project
and we'll try scrolling this up
and you can see that it's working now.
Like when I scroll up, it's disappearing as I scroll,
which is really what I want.
So what I can do now is, let's go ahead
and checkout main again.
All right.
And I can do, let's clear this out,
and I can do a git bisect good,
and then paste the ID of that, rephrase,
and then paste the ID of that commit.
Now it's going to take me through all
of the other commits until I mark them
as being good or bad.
So now it's at a different commit.
It moved up the list to the animation tweak.
And let's see, if I scroll up, is that working?
No, still no.
So I'm going to say git bisect bad, again.
And every time I do this, it's going
to go through my commits and I can test
to see if it's working.
You can see that it's working right now.
So it actually found the commit where it is working.
So I'm going to mark that as git bisect good,
and now it's going to tell me, yeah, this is the commit
that is the problem, or when that mistake was made.
So now I can grab this commit and let's clear this out,
and do a git show, paste this in there,
and it's going to show me everything
that was changed in that commit.
So it looks like I remove these two lines of text
after I'm transforming the sort of position
of the element here.
So I just remove this opacity.
And so I need to probably put that back in the code.
I'm going to hit the Q key.
And since I figured it out,
I'm going to do a git bisect reset here.
Now it's going to put everything back to where it used
to be at the beginning.
And I can go into my script.js file
and I'll find the place where I did this,
so looks like it's right here, right?
And I need it to just paste that code.
And I got to remove this minus sign because
this is just Git telling me that it was,
something I deleted from that list.
So I'm going to add that, and I'll hit Save.
And now when I scroll this up,
you can see it disappearing like it did before.
So now this is perfect.
And I can just say, I'll add a commit now.
I'll clear this out.
Git add period,
and git commit, Fixed Issue With Opacity When Scrolling.
And that's it.
So git bisect is a fantastic way
to go through all your commits in sequence
from a good commit, sequentially,
until you find a commit where you no longer have an error.
And it's just a really convenient way to fix things
while having Git help you go through the different pieces.